we have seen this before haven't we
like
i mean
there's a powerful quote
some say it is from a jewish philosopher
some say it is a chinese proverb
old chinese proverb
this could be that i don't know but
there are some questions i have about
this
philosophy teaching a man how to fish
purple
[Music]
wanna come
in the teaching a man how to fish
i'm sure you must have identified the
problems yourself here is problem number
one
where will he fish
do you see what i
mean adwa
where does he fish
the second problem
is
if he fishes in the same lake
as i am fishing already
will he start competing with me
hypocrites
a doctor
should take care of the people who
taught him or her
how to do medicine
probably we should get him to start a
fish farm
you know
get the point
teach a man how to fish
this
is squid game
some of you might have watched it on
netflix i did too much blood but it was
interesting
to participate or not to be first or
last
to
join hands with a friend or an enemy
to work together or not to cooperate or
compete
dynamics
many years ago they did a research
in a village in brazil
village with a lake
the other village is a fishing village
out in the open ocean
out in the open ocean porouvenga
they invest on large vessels in a kurti
boat la
they join hands
some of them does the sailing some of
them does the
navigating some do the fishing actual
fishing some more mechanics they join
hands
and they probably go once a week and
come back with a large haul
and divide
in the lakeland
they
compete
they try to go earlier than everybody
else
they try to stay longer than everybody
else if a special fishing
spot comes up they try to keep it from
everybody else
there is a limited availability of
resources
there is a limited number of fish in
this lake
in the ocean though
it's all
unlimited
and the more you cooperate the more
everybody gets to take home
fixed mindset versus growth mindset
narrative
here is another example
there was this book that came a decade
or so ago
called the blue ocean shift
when the famous authors aid in a book mr
kim and ms mabon
among the innocent
there are these two
types of markets
types of domains
one is the red ocean
open space there is nobody there
it's peaceful calm waiting for a harvest
inviting you
yes there may be risks but
at least these sharks aren't there these
established players aren't there water
is not already red it's not a feeding
frenzy already
she came up with a six part approach
itself probably we will see it in the
next quotidian
about how to make this shift
but other kumunadi in the red versus
blue
vidya's
these are the differences that i see
the first is in the market space itself
so netflix
what were everybody else doing
they were doing
movies theaters big budget launches
artificial scarcity ticketing
you get it only if there is stock of
that movie you get to watch it only
until the last day of the movie
these guys said here is a blue ocean
approach
let me just make it available for
anybody
wherever they are
however long they want it up they know
it shift paradigm shift
they changed the market space
how about competition
for a taxi stand union
uber came along and said stay where you
are
there is a mobile phone in the driver's
hand that is another in your hand
we will disintermediate they will send
the middleman away
and we will get you in direct contact
and it will be mutually beneficial
so there is no competition at all when
uber started they were the only guys
blue ocean
how about the bond
demand
unexplored new customer
they changed it
airbnb said
there may be people who don't want to
use a hotel room to stay
they want to just leave the baggage and
go sightseeing
why spend so much they just want a 10
square feet room to crash
airbnb created new demand
blue shift
how about this value versus cost
trade-off
so
apple ecosystem what phone to buy one
phone only the latest phone it is
costlier but it provides higher value
you can do both
in the random panda medium playing
and the beautiful opportunity becomes
available to you only when you're in the
blue shift
if you are in the red ocean you are
forced to
cut some feature lower some price
balance something on the pitch
you'll have to keep doing that
in the blue ocean you don't need to do
that because there is no competition
you can set your price you can demand
that this will be the value i offer
pay me that cost
great example for that is this amazon
prime app that has come up recently
drone delivery
amazing
and finally the client and customer
how does the customer behave in the red
ocean
she keeps looking na inga purda
angapurta
keeps comparing keeps the company or the
business on its toes you know unicode
that
complex dilemma doesn't exist in the
blue ocean
in the blue ocean
the company actually decides which kind
of customers to attract
they fire a customer
customers
but they provide great value in other
forms like amazing food
very low cost ticket beautiful real
estate other provides
they cut corners
yes some customers may not like it we
don't want such customers putting
citizen employee
they created another blue ocean for
themselves
do you see that beautiful difference
between the red ocean game and the blue
ocean game
anyway
foreign learn the game of swimming and
keeping your head above water
thank you
and yes we have done three we have done
four we'll meet again on eight
thank you